Propose request snapshot by follower (#26)
tikv/rfcs: text/2019-03-27-follower-request-snapshot.md

in order to distinguish between the reject messages from the new follower
(A new follower may response `reject_hint = INVALID_INDEX` too).

When the follower requests a snapshot, it enters a special state called
`requesting_snapshot`. In this state, the follower rejects all `MsgAppend` and
responses a request snapshot message.

#### Flow control

Snapshot needs flow control, otherwise, it wastes disk and network bandwidths by
repeatedly sending snapshot and raft logs.

Luckily, raft-rs already provides an efficient flow control mechanism, request
snapshot is also managed by the mechanism. Request snapshot messages will
eventually let the follower enter a `Snapshot` state in a leader's view, thus
leader sends a snapshot and pauses replicating raft logs to the follower.

#### Leader election

Should a follower be able to start a leader election? It's up to callers to
decide. E.g., a follower can always request a snapshot even if it's
totally fine. However, if a follower loses it's raft logs, it should not start
a leader election.

### Snapshot

The actual raft snapshot is generated in TiKV side, it is important to not

> generate a **stale** snapshot. By stale, it means the `snapshot_index` is less

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate a **stale** snapshot. By stale, it means the `snapshot_index` is behind
```

> than the current commit index. Otherwise, followers may apply some already

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the current commit index. Otherwise, some already applied commands, like 
```

> applied admin commands, like split or merge. It is an undesired behavior to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
split or merge, may be applied again to followers. It is an undesired behavior to
```

apply admin commands repeatedly.

## Drawbacks

> Enabling followers/learners to request snapshot actively could affect some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling followers/learners to request snapshots actively could affect some
```

> pre-assumptions for TiKV leaders potentially. The TiKV might, for instance,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pre-assumptions for TiKV leaders. The TiKV might, for instance,
```

> lost control of the number of generated snasphots, or affect other requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lose control of the number of generated snasphots, or affect other requests
```

> when too many snapshot requests are processing. Further discussions should aim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when too many snapshot requests are being processed. Further discussions should focus
```

> at these topics to resolve corner cases above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on these topics to resolve the corner cases above.
```

## Unresolved questions

> The cost of requesting and applying snapshot. (when multiple region snapshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cost of requesting and applying snapshot when multiple region snapshots
```

> are requesting or multiple snapshots of same region is requesting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are multiple snapshots of the same region are requesting
```

### tikv master

TiKV leaders should answer the `getSnapshotRequest` by responding a
`SnapshotResponse` message and the follower/learner should do `ApplySnapshot`
logic as usual. After the process, Old snapshots may be GCed.

### error handling

Common errors that may encounter snapshot might fail to generate
(AsyncSnapshotErr), etc. Most logic does not need changing when we deal with
`getSnapshotRequest`. TiFlash needs to deal with extra errors when unable to
get and apply snapshot data.

## Drawbacks

Enabling followers/learners to request snapshot actively could affect some
pre-assumptions for TiKV leaders potentially. The TiKV might, for instance,
lost control of the number of external connections, or affect other requests
when too many snapshot requests are processing. Further discussions should aim
at these topics to resolve corner cases above.

## Alternatives

### Plan B

In order to request for a region's snapshot from leader, TiKV learner may also
deceive the leader by replying an index much previous than the leader's index
so that the leader will send a snapshot.

The pros and cons of Plan B is that it is easy to implement but leaves

> uncertainty because the leader may not really respond by sending a snapshot.

Reviewer 2: Response a 0 should always trigger a snapshot.

# Follower/Learner request snapshot actively

## Summary

In current design, a follower can only wait for the leader to send a snapshot

> iff the leader founds out the follower cannot catch up to its index. This RFC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
iff the leader finds out the follower cannot catch up to its index. This RFC
```

> proposes to let a follower able to request snapshot from leader actively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
proposes to let a follower be able to request snapshot from leader actively.
```

## Motivation

For the TiFlash project, which synchronizes data via learner's raft log, the
region meta data is stored in memory and flushed to disk periodically, chances

> are that the region meta is lost during the process. In the other hand, we

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are that the region meta is lost during the process. On the other hand, we
```

also need a solution to restore broken data written to TiFlash since TiFlash
only owns one copy. Provided that the learner is able to request snapshot
actively, we can help restore broken data, and the restore process will be
faster and easier once TiFlash provides consistency check.

## Detailed design

### raft-rs

We should add a new API for raft-rs to request a snapshot of a region via grpc.

> The request snapshot message is piggybacked by `reject` and `reject_hint`, it

Reviewer 2: It may be hard to tell whether it's requesting snapshot actively or suffering data loss. In the later case, it has chance that there is no logs but committed logs are overwritten silently.

sets `reject` to `true` and `reject_hint` to `INVALID_INDEX`.

When the follower requests a snapshot, it enters a special state called
`requesting_snapshot`. In this state, the follower rejects all `MsgAppend` and
responses a request snapshot message.

#### Flow control

Snapshot needs flow control, otherwise, it wastes disk and network bandwidths by
repeatedly sending snapshot and raft logs.

Luckily, raft-rs already provides an efficient flow control mechanism, request
snapshot is also managed by the mechanism. Request snapshot messages will
eventually let the follower enter a `Snapshot` state in a leader's view, thus
leader sends a snapshot and pauses replicating raft logs to the follower.

#### Leader election

> A follow shall not start a leader election if it's in the`requesting_snapshot`

Reviewer 2: What if its logs are not damaged?

> A follow shall not start a leader election if it's in the`requesting_snapshot`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A follower shall not start a leader election if it's in the`requesting_snapshot`
```

state, because its raft logs or state machine may be damaged. Transfer leader
messages will silently be ignored, unfortunately.

### TiKV

The actual raft snapshot is generated in TiKV side, it is important to not
generate a **stale** snapshot. By stale, it means the `snapshot_index` is less
than the current commit index. Otherwise, followers may apply some already
applied admin commands, like split or merge. It is an undesired behavior to
apply admin commands repeatedly.

## Drawbacks

Enabling followers/learners to request snapshot actively could affect some
pre-assumptions for TiKV leaders potentially. The TiKV might, for instance,
lost control of the number of generated snasphots, or affect other requests
when too many snapshot requests are processing. Further discussions should aim
at these topics to resolve corner cases above.

## Alternatives

### Plan B

> In order to request for a region's snapshot from leader, TiKV learner may also

Reviewer 2: I don't think there is any difference between plan B and the proposal.

> #### Leader election

Reviewer 2: s/leader election/Election/
